PREFACE v

Part 11 is based on Cicero’s Orations and follows in gen-
eral the plan of Part Ι ; systematic work in grammar being
carried on with illustrative exercises throughout the year.
The orations used for a basis are the Manilian Law, the
Catilinarian Orations, and the Archias, The ground covered
is in some respects the same as that gone over in Part I, except
that the treatment is more detailed and the accompanying
exercises are somewhat harder. Among the new subjects
discussed in Part 11 are the translation in Latin of the Eng-
lish auxiliary verbs and the use and meaning of the Latin
prepositions. Both of these classes of words are of constant
occurrence, and thus far have lacked adequate treatment in
books for secondary schooIS. To give greater definiteness to
the work it seemed wise to discuss particular subjects with
special orationS‚ as follows z with the Manilian Law, syntax
of nounS, adjectiveS, and pronouns; with the Catilinarian
OrationS, syntax of the subjunctive; with the Archias, the
English auxiliary verbs and the Latin prepositionS. , There
has been provided, further, a vocabulary of synonyms, without
which a study of Cicero’s prose would be quite incomplete.

Part ΙΙΙ consists of thirty-four exercises to be used as a
prose review in the fourth year. If systematic study of
grammar has been steadily pursued for two years, such
knowledge can be best tested and made effective by miscel·
laneous exercises independent of an accompanying text.
These exercises are of this character, and consist each of
two partS, A and B. The sentences in A are short and dis·
connected, while B consists of a paragraph of connected
narrative. Teachers will use either or both parts at their
discretiori. One of these exercises per week throughout the
senior year would not seem an excessive requirement. In
order that the exercises might be well within the powers of
studentS, they were based on Cicero’s Orations and Letters,

